---
layout: post
title: Road Rage
date: '2003-12-11 12:01:06 -0700'
mt_id: 650
blog_id: 1
post_id: 650
basename: road-rage
---
<br />As I was transitioning from the <a href="http://www.ajnpx.com/html/SquawPeakForever.html">Squaw Peak Parkway</a> to the Loop 101, I had to merge with the other lane. I saw a space in front of a souped up Bronco and so I worked my way up to it by the time the two lanes became one. Apparently, this space was reserved for the Bronco and no one was allowed in it because he immediately sped up and tried to force me out of there. I continued on until I made it in there&#x2014;much to his dissatisfaction.<br /><br />The remainder of my short time on the Loop 101 was spent with a close up view of his radiator grill in my rear view mirror. That is, until he swung to my side. Then he let loose with a torrent of obscenity that I could barely make out with my closed window. His lady friend probably got a great view of the man she's got though I'm sure this isn't the first or last time she's seen that side of him. I'm guessing that he was trying to bait me into rolling down my window but I just waved, mouthed some talking of my own, and generally ignored his rantings. And then the object of his attention became clear as the full Thirstbuster hit my window: I guess he got frustrated with trying to score an inner car hit and figured that the outside was as good as he was going to get.<br /><br />At that point, I burst into laughter and I think that made him madder. What sort of reaction can you give to a screaming man who's just thrown his drink at your car? It's just amusing to me that someone could get so wound up over merging. What a waste of your life and energy!<br /><br /><br />
