---
layout: post
title: Arizona Flash Mob This Thursday!
date: '2003-08-12 06:50:35 -0700'
mt_id: 436
blog_id: 1
post_id: 436
basename: arizona-flash-mob-this-thursday
---
<br />Flash Mobs have hit the Valley of the Sun. Read more at:<br /><br />http://groups.yahoo.com/groups/azflashmobs/<br /><br />INSTRUCTIONS - MOB #1<br />Start time: Thursday, August 14th, sometime after 7:00pm<br />Duration: 5 minutes<br /><br />(1) At some point during the day on August 14th,<br />synchronize your watch to<br />http://www.time.gov/timezone.cgi?Mountain/s/-7/java/java.<br />(If that site doesn't work for you, try<br />http://www.time.gov/timezone.cgi?Mountain/s/-7.)<br /><br />(2) By 6:40 PM, based on the month of your birth,<br />please situate yourselves in the locations below. Buy a<br />drink and act casual. NOTE: if you are attending the<br />MOB with friends, you may all meet in the same bar, so<br />long as at least one of you has the correct birth<br />month for that bar. Please be near the front window of<br />each establishment.<br /><br />January, February, March, April: <br />  Fat Tuesdays<br />  680 S Mill Av Ste 106 <br />  TEMPE, AZ 85281<br /><br />May, June, July, August: <br />  Mill Ave Brewing<br />  605 S Mill Ave <br />  TEMPE, AZ 85281<br /><br />September, October, November, December: <br />  Long Wongs<br />  701 S Mill Ave <br />  TEMPE, AZ 85281<br /><br />Under Age:<br />  Coffee Plantation<br />  680 S Mill Ave<br />  TEMPE, AZ 85281<br /><br /><br />(3) Then, or soon thereafter, a MOB representative will<br />appear in the location and pass around further<br />instructions. The instructions will specify the mob<br />site, the start time, and the duration. The<br />instructions will give you what you need and then<br />some.<br /><br />(4) In particular, the instructions will tell you when<br />to disperse. Make sure that two minutes after the<br />specified time you are no longer at the mob site.<br /><br />(5) Return to what you otherwise would have been<br />doing and await instructions for MOB #2.<br /><br />To the press: <br />Please do not report on the event to the public prior to the <br />actual event time on the day of the event. If you wish to report <br />on the event please save your interviews until after the event <br />activities are completed and the mob has begins to leave. If you <br />would like to verify this script, email the auto-responder at <br />azflashmob@hushmail.com. This is an unmanaged account and only <br />responses after validating an account. No email will be read at <br />this account.<br /><br /><br />
