---
layout: post
title: My Best Idea Ever
date: '2003-11-17 04:49:36 -0700'
mt_id: 635
blog_id: 1
post_id: 635
basename: my-best-idea-ever
---
<br />The best business idea I ever had was grand in scope, beautiful if executed properly, and could have revolutionized the <acronym title="Information Technology">IT</acronym> industry. I had it about two years ago and it was one of those eureka-in-the-shower moments that I sometimes have. It was basically what Robert X. Cringely calls <a href="http://www.pbs.org/cringely/pulpit/pulpit20031030.html">hive computing</a>.<br /><br />My idea was to use desktop computers for serving web pages. Uh huh, snooze. In other words, I wanted to create some software (or cause some software to be created, more likely) that would allow an average desktop computer to handle a Web request and serve it back using its spare computing cycles in between real work. This distributed network could combine to handle all the requests for a company's Web site, its intranet, or its extranet. In other words, getting rid of the expensive servers&#x2014;the so-called "big iron." Most Fortune 500 companies have thousands and thousands of desktop computers and several hundred servers of various persuasions. A lot of those desktop computers are spread across the nation and the world. Through geoserving, requests could also be handled by the most appropriate&#x2014;read: nearest in proximity&#x2014;computers.<br /><br />It was a revolutionary idea. It still is. The problem that caused me to abandon it&#x2014;aside from some rather vehement naysayers&#x2014;was the sheer enormity of the idea. Serving up static HTML pages would be a walk in the park; dynamic ones pose a little bit more of a problem. There's so many different app servers that would have to be made to be distributed and the whole communication issue was a tough nut, as well. Moreover, there's security issues, routing problems, and customer acceptance.<br /><br />If anyone reading this wants to tackle the problem, let me know and I'll sign off whatever rights I may possess by law. I've moved on, but it's still an intriguing idea and the grid computing industry has improved considerably. I'll also happily share my notes that I prepared in a frenzy of brainstorming.<br /><br /><br />
