---
layout: post
title: First Shovelglove
date: '2005-06-07 02:46:59 -0700'
mt_id: 928
blog_id: 1
post_id: 928
basename: first-shovelglove
categories:
- personal
---
<br />So this morning I did my first <a href="http://www.shovelglove.com/">shovelglove</a> routine and I've got to say that I feel great! It was easy, took only 14 minutes, and worked out my upper body considerably. I was initially worried about where I would do the exercise since wielding a sledgehammer in realistic activities might entail a whole lot of smashing, but I found a spot at the foot of my stairs that works perfectly.<br /><br />After 200 <a href="http://www.shovelglove.com/shovel.html">shovelling repetitions</a>&#x2014;he was right that you could do two rotations of the routine in 14 minutes&#x2014;my arms feel like elastic. When I extend them, they say, "Umm, let's just retract a little, shall we?" It's better than what they were saying right after the workout, "Hey buddy, you're a desk jockey. The hands are the ones that are supposed to exercise." Okay, so anthropomorphizing your body is a little tired but you'll have to excuse me.<br /><br />The amazing thing is that I could definitely see myself developing the upper-body strength I've lacked my entire life. I'm not looking to be The Hulk or anything, but it would be nice to be able to dig a trench without getting sore or to rip a phone book in half. The one idiosyncrasy in the system that I discovered was that the guy that made the <a href="http://www.shovelglove.com/chop_wood.html">chopping wood</a> has clearly never chopped wood since this technique would just splinter chips off the logs, but that's really a nitpick.<br /><br />[UPDATE (6/8/05): Day after correction: my right arm is doing splendid but my left arm bicep is terrifically sore. I can't even fully extend it. While I was doing the exercise, I noticed the difference in sensation between the two arms but I wrote it off as muscular grousing. I now know what that muscle was trying to tell me. I didn't shovelglove this morning for that reason. Tomorrow I'm going to give that muscle the day off again, only do one rotation, and relegate my right arm to more of a supporting role. Once it's doing better, I'll work it back into the mix and take it easier.]<br /><br />[UPDATE (6/9/05): Nope, today's no good to resume the exercise. It's actually become painful to extend my left arm. I know how a Tyrannosaurus rex must've felt because I have to bend over to reach anything below waist level; I'm sure it's rather comical to watch. This has been a very important lesson learned.]<br /><br /><br />
