---
layout: post
title: Three's a Charm
date: '2005-05-12 14:40:23 -0700'
mt_id: 894
blog_id: 1
post_id: 894
basename: threes-a-charm
categories:
- go-daddy
---
<br />Today was the Quarterly Employee Appreciation Event at Go Daddy. They really went all out for it, putting up a huge tent in the parking lot and bringing in air conditioners. We ate a nice lunch (ham, chicken pieces, macaroni and cheese, mashed potatoes, and Caesar salad) and chatted. I got to know some of the developers that I got introduced to on my first day; they're a great bunch of people and I can't wait to work with them more.<br /><br />The highlight of the event (for us developers, at least) was the speech by <a href="http://www.bobparsons.com/">Bob Parsons</a>. I had listened to him on <a href="http://www.radiogodaddy.com/">Radio Go Daddy</a> and he was just as funny in person. First, he outlined his vision of where we're at and where we need to be. Then he gave an overview of the last quarter's financial statistics, which I can't reveal. I know I've gushed about how great Go Daddy is for the last few days and how Bob Parsons was one of the reasons I wanted to work there, but I honestly feel that. He was inspiring and he made me want what he wanted. I wonder if this is how Apple employees feel.<br /><br />For the call center people, the event was incredible. He picked random employees (as far as I know) and gave out prizes like mortgage or rent paid for a year, a new car, and an all-expenses paid trip for two to Hawaii. And cash. Scads of cash. I was cheering even though I couldn't possibly share in the bounty because it's just great that people are being rewarded so lavishly. If I were a call center person, I would be all over that opportunity. All in all, it was a great experience.<br /><br />Unfortunately, it was totally dwarfed by my first rummage through the code for the product I'm working on. I truly wish I could go into specifics because it is an impressive code base. I actually worked 10 hours today: I was having that much fun. I've found myself waking up at 3:30 am the last couple mornings and having to convince myself that I shouldn't just go into work. I'm sure that my giddiness won't last forever, but I'm also sure that it's not going anywhere soon.<br /><br />I haven't had such a feeling of completeness and joy in my life in a really long time. I mean I've got an awesome job, an incredible wife, and three fascinating daughters. The only thing I'm missing in my life is a boatload of money. Enh, that'll come eventually.<br /><br />[NOTE: The views expressed on this website/weblog are mine alone and do not necessarily reflect the views of Go Daddy Software, Inc.]<br /><br /><br />
